you're watching BBC News let's turn to
the latest developments now from the
Middle East the un's defense secretary
Lloyd Austin says he has spoken to his
Israeli counterpart to discuss a range
of issues in the region including the
ongoing exchanges of fire on the Israel
Lebanon border and the need to finalize
a broader ceasefire deal well it comes
as un officials have confirmed the first
case of polio in Gaza for 25 years with
the disease partially paralyzing a
10-month-old baby the head of the world
Health Organization has said he's
Gravely concerned that efforts are
underway to roll out a vaccination
program in the coming weeks well let's
speak live to our correspondent in
Jerusalem wah Davis who's there and we
let's start with the final part of what
I read out there is a considerable alarm
at that development there of polio in
Gaza not just from the
who now we've heard from other un
agencies today confirming what had been
suspected that polio was now present in
Gaza it's been confirmed today that a
baby has been infected with polio and
has been partially paralyzed and of
course polio is a highly infectious
disease and the big concern is here
given the San sanitary conditions given
humanitarian crisis in Gaza that it
could spread very very quickly it's one
reason why the UN has called for for a
ceasefire not just for military reasons
but to actually allow more vaccines to
be brought in and for those vaccines to
be distributed effec itively Israel has
pushed back um a couple of times in in
last few days on this saying that a
number of well hundreds of thousands of
vaccines have already been sent into
Gaza but of course the problem is that
with such a large displaced population
with people living in such difficult
conditions and with a war going on it's
very difficult to administer uh most if
if not all of of those vaccines so some
vaccines we learn have gone in again in
in the last 24 hours but with this
confirmed case of and with the potential
for a much bigger spread that is another
one of the the considerations here and
why some people are calling for a cease
fight so those vaccines can be delivered
and administered in terms of those
ceasefire
negotiations again all the pointers
pretty bleak as it stands how close are
we or how far away are we to getting any
sort of
deal well the honest answer is that we
just really don't know there are
conflicting reports coming from uh
around the region according to Hamas
officials who've spoken to the BBC now
Hamas are not actively part of these
talks in KIRO there has been no progress
they have received nothing updated they
have received nothing uh as far as they
concerned that persuades them that a
ceasefire agreement is any closer there
are unconfirmed reports in parts of the
Israeli media that they are perhaps
close to a breakthrough and perhaps a
new proposal will be delivered by the
negotiators to Hamas who aren't part of
the talks what we do know is that
Israeli Egyptian and American
negotiators are in Cairo the sticking
points from the outside might not seem
to be that big the biggest contentious
issue seems to be what Israeli troops
would remain in which parts of Gaza in
the event of a ceasefire there's an area
the Border area between Egypt and Gaza
where perhaps both the Egyptians and
Hamas would want the Israelis to leave
from Israel uh through Benjamin
Netanyahu has indicated it wants to
retain some sort of Israeli presence in
the area at the end of the day it
depends how much both leadership the
Hamas leadership in Yaya Sina and the
Israeli Prime Minister in Benjamin
Netanyahu how much they're prepared to
compromise uh in order to achieve a
ceasefire and of course the return of
the hostages but uh not much concrete
news coming out of Egypt as we speak we
Davis there in Jerusalem thanks a lot
for that thank you